# Spring_2018_Web_Programming
## Goals Essay


	My computer science experience thus far includes one semester of computer science undergraduate coursework and two semesters of graduate of coursework at SUNY New Paltz.  Some courses include Data Structures and Algorithms, Cloud Computing, Programming Languages, Data Science Foundations and Computer Systems.  I’ve also spent significant time self studying on websites such as Coursera, mostly in the data science track, as well as online courses offered by other universities such as Stanford’s CS231n which provides an excellent introduction to computer vision and deep learning.  In general, I was attracted to computer science because I enjoy building things as well as understanding how things work at a deep level.  I’m particularly interested in data science and machine learning which lead me to work on a thesis this semester on Convolutional Neural Networks.  

	In addition to the course work at New Paltz, I also attended a 12 week data science program called Galvanize in San Francisco.  This took place after my first semester in the graduate program.  At Galvanize I was exposed to an environment that emphasized collaborative problem solving and project based learning. As such, we participated in daily pair programming exercises as well as a couple of case studies that involved teams of three to four members. I highly enjoyed this type of work because I was able to experience how others think and approach a problem which in turn helps me expand my own problem solving abilities.  Some projects we’ve worked on include recommender systems, natural language processing, implementing several machine learning algorithms and using distributed systems to cluster large amount of text data.

	I’m excited to be a part of this class because not only will we be learning about the latest web based technologies but also will be applying them to build a real world application.  I have past experience building a personal website for myself as well as one for my parent’s company using basic HTML, CSS and Javascript but I know very little about server side web programming and nothing about Node or Angular.  Therefore, I’m hoping by the end of the class I will have a better understanding of how I can leverage my current skill set using the web based technologies and other skills learned in class. 

	Although I’m seeking a career path in data science and machine learning after I graduate, I still see value in learning the skills and technologies that will be developed in this class.  I believe learning to build a fully functioning app over an extended period of time will help build a strong foundation for tackling large, complex programming assignments that involve many moving parts.  Additionally, I hope to use web technologies to develop data driven web applications that I can showcase on my portfolio and hopefully extend these skills further into a career. 
